Navbars are some of my favorite
things in the whole world.
Because I think you can teach pretty much
all of web development [LAUGH] in terms of
HTML and CSS inside of a navbar.
You learn good semantic markup.
You learn all kinds of
crazy layout tricks.
You learn all kinds of interesting
things about the cascade and
selectors and all the rest of it,
sort of a little microcosm of web page.
And, of course, they're highly relevant.
What is a web page without a navbar?
So we'll start here and
I'm going to give this to you to do first.
Creating the correct markup for
a navbar inside of a CodePen.
So let's take a look at
our beginning CodePen.
As you see here, I have copied
over the CSS as it exists so far.
That's the CSS from the intro
exercise that we did,
the CSS from the contact
exercise that we did.
And I have given you, here's what our
navigation will ultimately look like.
You're gonna put in your name, and
then there's a series of links here.
And so what I would like for
you to do now, is I would like for
you to give a pass at this,.
Take like five minutes and
think about how you would go about
marking up this navbar in a semantic way.
Remember that this is a list of links,
hint hint.
It is a list of links, so
you'll need to put in a link.
It doesn't have to go anywhere.
We can worry about that part later.
It's a list doesn't matter what
he's links in, it probably doesn't.
So that should sort of trigger something
else for you in terms of the HTML.
Its navigation,
its major navigation for the web page,
that should trigger another
HTML element for you.
And we had talked about that there's an H1
in here somewhere as the most important
part of this.
So think about all of that, and take a
first pass at marking this up as a navbar.
And I'm gonna talk you through
the answer here in just a moment and
see what you can do in terms
of just marking this up.
Don't worry about how it looks just yet.
How did you do that?.
Hopefully, you did okay
with that navbar markup.
Navbars are really again,
one of the things I really love because
the markup is pretty much always the same.
And very few people are doing it
correctly at this point in time.
A navigation bar is a list of links
that can be visited in any order.
So it's a list that should immediately
trigger in your head one of the types of
HTML lists that are available.
UL for an unordered list,
OL for an ordered list, or
if you're super fancy,
maybe even DL for a description list.
I'm sure there's several
choices to choose from but
that doesn't matter what order
you visit those links in.
There isn't a first thing to do or
a second thing to do and
we don't have pairs of information.
So that means that the unordered list
is going to be the foundation of
how our navbar works.
Then we're going to flag it with
the nav element in order to set this as
the main navigation on our webpage.
It's not any list of links,
it is our navigation.
And so that's why we have a nav tag there.
So that is the foundation of any
navbar that you ever code from now on.
Now a lot of developers look at this and
they go, man,
that just looks like a lot
of extra HTML markup.
Well, let me tell you,
having all those extra elements will wind
it making styling a lot easier and
a lot more interesting.
It also enhances
accessibility along the way.
So here's my CodePen and
how I marked this up.
Some of this should be pretty
straightforward for you.
So there's that navigation,
it starts here at the beginning and
it closes at the end of this whole thing.
Inside of that is our unordered list,
starting and ending unordered list.
And then we have a series
of navigation items.
They start with an LI,
they end with an LI.
Inside of that, we have links.
And I think all of that's
pretty straightforward.
Where are the curveballs?
Curveballs are here, so here on line five,
that's where I put my H1.
Now you may not have seen that kind of
markup before where you have an LI.
Inside of that, we have an H1.
That is the main heading for
an entire webpage, but
this is valid legitimate markup.
A heading element is allowed
inside of a list item.
And that will ultimately be my logo,
it's gonna be a text based logo.
But my logo for the web page is
going to be that H1 right there.
And I have set that to link to itself.
Ultimately, it's we're gonna
make a page called index.HTML,
which is historically,
the homepage of your website.
So that's why I've linked that there.
Then we're going to have a link to
the projects section of our webpage,
we haven't built that yet.
But you can set that up there
by linking to pound projects,
or pound contact, pound hash tag
is the other one, of course.
So the way you set up that
linking inside of the same page
simply linked to that particular ID.
So by hashtag contact here,
we're skipping down to the section
with the ID of contact.
Okay, so that's what all of that is.
I have a link to my LinkedIn.
I have a link to my GitHub, and
I have a link to my resume.
I prefer to make things that go
off site open in a new window.
I know some people feel very strongly
about this going the other way that
everything should open in the same window.
My advice to you is you can do either
of those things just be consistent.
We want them to all either all the links
go upside open a new windows or
they all open in the same window.
Whatever way it is that you
want to choose how to do that.